Let's inject some configuration data
in a couple of different ways in
our familiar expenses microservice.
So we will start with lab
apps-inject start script,
which populates the source course directory.
If we move over, there going to
/labs/apps-inject/expense-service/,
we can see that the ExpenseResource.
java is actually a class that has
the expense limits hard-coded
into the application,
so that's obviously not good.
So what it does with these 2 numbers,
it first of all,
if we are looking at the create method,
that's around line 40, it says,
if the expense amount is larger than
the maximum single expense amount,
it throws an error and sets the
Response.Status to NOT ACCEPTABLE.
Then a couple of lines
further down around line 53,
it checks that the total
amount of all expenses in
a month is not larger than
max monthly expense amount.
And again, if it is,
displays an error string in
the exception that it throws
and sets the Response.Status
as NOT_ACCEPTABLE.
Let's try that out.
So trying to running the application
using mvn quarkus:dev.
Once it starts up,
we can send a couple of requests.
For example, the first
one would have been the
$3,500 expense for Medical
Insurance paid with a DEBIT_CARD,
we get an expense nicely displayed,
returned on the standard output.
Now if I tried to submit
a request in the value
of $7,500 for a holiday on top
of that medical insurance,
I did not get a response.
That's because there is no response.
If I add verbose output to curl,
we can see that the
response from the server
is simply 406, Not Acceptable.
Having a look at what the
application server had printed out,
it literally says, Expense amount
is larger than the limit,
which is 5000. Right!
Stopping the server and changing
the ExpenseResource a little bit.
What we will be adding is first,
we'll be making the singleLimitErrorMsg
and monthlyLimitErrorMsg
configurable by
adding 2 string fields just underneath
the maxSingleExpenseAmount and
maxMonthlyExpenseAmount.
And then of course,
replacing the hard-coded
strings in the methods
with a reference to the fields
that we have just created.
So that's both for the singular limit
and for the monthly limit error message,
we simply replace that
with the field name.
The next one, the next change
we are going to do is
we are going to import the ConfigProperty
annotation and annotate
all 4 of the new strings.
So the maxSingleExpenseAmount
and the maxMonthlyExpenseAmount,
going to annotate them
with the @ConfigProperty,
converting the camelCase field
name to something that looks
a little bit nicer in
the property file max-
single-expense-amount.
And we will be doing the same
for the error messages
except that the string
that we've initialized in
to is now going to be used as
the defaultValue here.
So we are not initializing
the field anymore,
the @ConfigProperty
annotation is doing that.
And again, both for single and
monthly limit error messages.
Of course now we have to add
this to application properties,
so there it is.
We have added 2 attributes,
max-single-expense-amount,
setting it to 4000.
I have just jumped ahead and
set max-monthly-expense-amount to 9001 and
in reality, in this stage you
would have simply setting it to 7500.
But I have adjusted the values
in my tests to match my limit.
So trying it out, starting the Quarkus
in development mode, we can see
that there are some injections
automatically added to the source code.
I am going back to our client window.
I will be setting a new
expense of 7500 dollars.
Again, sending that request to the
application server and immediately says,
it's Not Acceptable because it is not for
a single expense and prints
out the actual message.
Expense amount is larger than limit,
which correctly reflects our
application property's value.
In the next request,
I will be creating a $4000
expense for Holiday.
Which says, OK
and then another 4000,
which is 8000 altogether,
which says OK again. Now,
when I try for the third time,
I will be going over the limit.
So the third request to create
new expense as 3 Holidays, 4000
each would amount to 12000,
which of course is Not Acceptable.
If you look at the
application server logs,
it says clearly, if expense is accepted,
it would exceed the monthly limit
and correctly again reflects
the dynamically loaded value
from application properties.
Let's change the
application properties and
change the max-monthly-expense-amount
from 7500 in your case to
something much larger from
my case from 9001 to 15000.
Just to prove that
dynamic reload will happen,
so, going for 4000
once success, twice
success,
thrice, that's 1200 still success
and the fourth time it
would have hit 16000,
which would have been above the limit,
and again says Not Acceptable.
The first request I made after changing
application properties
actually reloaded Quarkus
and ultimately, the fourth request,
which would have bumped it
across the 15000 limit to 16000,
correctly reports the new value.
Stop in Quarkus,
let's refactor our
annotated service class.
We are going to remove any
configuration annotations from
the web service classic is
that's not about configuration,
it's about web service, right?
So we are going to introduce a
new expense configuration class.
If we have a look at it,
it is using the ConfigProperty and
the @ConfigProperties annotation.
The @ConfigProperties annotation
is selecting the expense prefix,
so any attribute under the expense.
anything in the application
properties file would have
been injected into this set of properties.
The reason why we still use ConfigProperty singular is because we
want to set the defaultValue
for the error messages.
That is it. Of course,
we have to change the application.
properties to qualify
the expense amounts under
the expense.namespace.
That's what the ConfigProperties
expect to be or expects them to be.
So we need to add
expense.prefix to both of them.
And then changing the
ExpenseResource,
we are going to remove any
ConfigProperty annotations,
any sort of trace of
these 4 properties that we've
previously been manipulating,
so just removing all these,
but we are going to inject
the ExpenseConfiguration now
because that is where our
configuration is now stored.
And that means simply that whenever
we are accessing these fields,
which we have now removed,
we have to access them from
the configuration class.
So instead of comparing to
maxSingleExpenseAmount,
we will be comparing to configuration.getMaxSingleExpenseAmount.
Similarly, when we are trying to format a
message instead of directly accessing
singleLimitErrorMsg, we will be accessing
configuration.getSingleLimitErrorMsg.
And it's the same with the monthly amount,
so we will simply be replacing
direct field access with the getter invocation
from the configuration class.
Restarting Quarkus
and going back to our client,
when we send an amount of 4000 for
the first expense, it is accepted.
That's fine.
So let's try changing the message
using an environment variable.
So stopping Quarkus and setting
the EXPENSE_SINGLE_LIMIT_ERROR_MSG
environment variable to Too big,
and then restarting Quarkus
in dev mode. Here we go.
If I tried to create an
expense that is $10000
I have now switched back
to 9001 is a maximum,
but any rate that's a monthly maximum,
single maximum, I'm above all limits.
So that would trigger the
single limit error message.
And as you can see,
it actually does report and the
exception log is now Too big.
Right!
Stopping the existing Quarkus instance,
we can now clean up,
running the lab apps-inject finish script.
After it cleans up and removes
all the exercise resources,
just join us in the next video where we are
going to talk about Feature Toggles.
See you there.